# Data Synchronisation: Webhooks and AWS

### **Can we use websockets with AWS Lambda or do we need a more traditional service running on e.g EC2?**

Yes!!!! [As of 2018 we can use Webhooks in AWS via API Gateway.](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/announcing-websocket-apis-in-amazon-api-gateway/) 🥳🎉

Here's the docs https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-websocket-api-overview.html

It works something like this

- The client establishes a websocket connection, this is handled by API Gateway
- API Gateway is responsible for persisting the WS connection
- When a client connects, disconnects or sends a message, the configured handler function (lambda) for the WS route will be called.
- The handler function/lambda will receive the action, message and connectionId of the WS event.
- If a function/lambda wants to send a message to the client, they simply make a request back to the API Gateway to an `execute-api` endpoint with the connectionId. Or even better AWS provide an SDK to enable this communication, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-how-to-call-websocket-api-connections.html

Here is a great article about how to implement this functionality. https://tsh.io/blog/implementing-websocket-with-aws-lambda-and-api-gateway/

**NOTE:** One consideration that we need to make is that since our handler Lambdas are stateless, will need a small persistance layer to store connectionIds and any other relevant info, that the handler needs to allow us to send messages back to the correct clients.

AWS recommend RDS or DynamoDB for this.

<hr />

### **Do we need to manage idle connections?**

Nope. AWS takes care of this for us.

We just need to add our code to the handler function to handle the disconnect events.

<hr />

### **How will this scale, with many users?**

In terms of horizontal scaling, AWS takes care of that for us (depending on our configuration)

The default limits for number of concurrant WS connections is pretty generous also, obviously we would need to weight this up against our current and projected usage.

<hr />

### **How does this look on the FE, can we implement in a staged/incremental approach?**

TBC. Spoiler...yes.

<br />

[Next - "Proposed Solution: Overview" ->](../ProposedSolution//1.Overview.md)

[Home ->](/README.md)
