# Approach 5: Continuous Polling (Pseudo Webhooks)

[<- Home](/README.md)

This approach is not covered in the article. But in principle, we could have a (new) dedicated endpoint which the client will poll with a list of entity ids(?) that we are interested, the endpoint could then return the current versions of all these entities currently within the read projection.
The client can then compare the returned versions with the versions we currently have in memory in the client, and for any that have changed, trigger a query(s) to request the most recent data.

### **Pros**:

- We are able to be in sync with the server after any update is made to the read projection, including that of others, albeit with a slight delay === pollingInterval + queryResponseTime.
- No coupling between read / write layers

### **Cons**:

- We will need to track version of entities in the FE for comparison.
- We will need to have a relatively small polling interval for this to be remotely comparable to websockets.
- We will potentially increase the load on API Gateway and responding Lambda since we'll be polling it constantly, multiplied by the umber of client online at any given time.
- The handler function/lambda would likely be up for prolonged periods of time during the day whilst clients were polling continuously, unnecessarily if there are no updates to report, which would be wasted cost.

### **Decision**: Maybe! ðŸ¤”â“ But much less preferable than webhooks.

<br />

[Next - "Data Synchronisation: Webhooks & AWS" ->](../3.WebhooksAndAWS.md)

[Home ->](/README.md)
