# Problem Statements

- Lack of consistency between the FE and BE caused by CQRS / EventSourcing arch:

  - If another user updates an entity that I am viewing or working on, I am unaware of their change.<br />
    This could lead to me overriding their changes, or making changes based on inaccurate information.
  - When I update an entity, I update my local state/data manually based solely on the knowledge that the write command succeeded, therefore I am no longer in sync with the reac model, there is no longer a single source of truth.

- Use of FaaC pattern encourages dense nesting of components
- Difficult to track the "fetch status" for a given route/component, esp when they are dependant on multiple simultaneous fetches.
- Overuse of global state for data caching/sync has a high maintenance cost and is a potential source of bugs.<br/>
  This is generally considered an anti-pattern in modern React
  > Over the last couple years, the React community has come to realize that "data fetching and caching" is really a different set of concerns than "state management". While you can use a state management library like Redux to cache data, the use cases are different enough that it's worth using tools that are purpose-built for the data fetching use case.<br /> > https://redux-toolkit.js.org/rtk-query/overview#motivation
- Redux. This library is old, creates a lot of boilerplate and is hard to debug, maintain and develop new features. <br />
  Less so, but it can impact developer experience and therefore impact retention/hiring (very unlikely, but it happens)

<br />

[Next - "Solution Aims" ->](./3.Aims.md)

[Home ->](/README.md)
